All right.
So here we have an example where we need to use marginal analysis.
It says a startup that manufactures high pressure water gun toys notices that the revenue brought in
by producing X water guns is given by.
And here we have the revenue function.
So our of x is a revenue function and it is equal to zero point zero or three x squared plus to 50 x.
So the first question that we have is estimate the revenue brought in by producing the one hundred and
first unit.
All right so how do we do this.
The first thing I want you to notice is that we have the word estimate as part of the problem.
So estimate the revenue brought in by producing the 100 and first unit.
Interesting.
So if we need to estimate remember that we need to use marginal analysis and we can use our mnemonic.
Its very easy It says marginal minus 1 if we want to estimate the revenue brought in by producing the
100 and first unit marginal minus one then we need to plug in 100 in one minus one into the marginal
revenue function.
Now lets do it step by step.
First we need to find the marginal revenue function and remember that that is equal to the derivative
of the revenue function.
So we have that marginal revenue.
So the derivative of the revenue function is equal to.
So here we have a constant 0.03
and then we have a power function.
So we bring down a dictator but to and X stays with the exponent of one right because we subtract one
from the exponent.
So this is X to the one which is just x plus.
Here we have a constant so constant multiple says leave the constant outside.
Thats a 250.
I remember the derivative of X is just one right because its X to the one and then when you get the
derivative is X to the 1 minus 1 x to the zero equals one.
All right so let's simplify this a little bit more.
So we have a zero point zero at three times two that is zero point zero looks like something weird.
Zero point zero six x
plus 250.
All right so now we have our marginal revenue function.
I remember if this had been the profit function or the cost function we would have done the same thing.
First step is to find the derivative because we're estimating.
And then the second step is again marginal minus one.
We're going to go ahead and we're going to Plug-In what into the derivative.
Well remember it's whatever a unit you're looking for minus 1.
So instead of a 100 on one we're going to plug in 100
or we go.
So we're plugging in a hundred into this marginal revenue function.
So let's go ahead and do that zero point 0 6 times X..
So X is your input and it is 100
plus 250
so 0.06 times 100 is just 6 plus 250 and that is going to give us 256.
So we have the answer 256 What does that mean.
Well it means that the revenue brought in by the one hundred and first unit is estimated to be $256.
Okay.
So remember this is not the revenue of producing a 100 on one units.
No this is just the extra revenue of producing this single unit unit number 101.
Okay.
So theres a difference there.
All right.
Perfect.
So just to summarize we want to estimate the revenue brought in by a certain unit.
So we have the revenue function we just get the derivative of that to get marginal revenue because we're
estimating once we get the derivative we plug in one less than the unit we're looking for.
So if we're looking for a 100 on one then we plug in 100 into the marginal revenue function and we get
to 56.
That is our answer.
In other words this is an approximation of the revenue brought in by producing unit number 1 0 1.
All right.
So this is an approximation right.
We're just as to meeting what if we want to find the actual revenue brought in by Unit 101.
Let's go to that next.
All right.
So the first question we approximated the revenue brought in by producing Unit 101 here.
We're asking what is the actual.
All right.
So the real revenue brought in by producing Unit 101.
This is not an estimation not an approximation.
This is the real deal.
And sometimes you'll get this question in marginal analysis.
So how do we do this.
Let's copy again.
Our revenue function.
All right.
So remember this gives you the actual revenue for X number of units.
Now what happens if you go ahead and plug in 1 to 1 into this revenue function.
The problem with doing that is that you're going to get the revenue of producing a hundred and one units
in total.
So unit one unit two you need three unit for unit five etc etc. up to Unit 101.
So that gives you the revenue producing the whole batch of 100 and one units in this question.
What we need to find is the revenue produced by this single unit.
So Unit 101 is a single unit and we want to find the revenue brought in by this specific one not by
all the others.
So think about it so if I tell you that I went to the store and I bought a computer and a TV both of
them together my total was $3000.
And I tell you that the TV costs two thousand dollars.
It's a four K high definition 10 ATP whatever super awesome cool TV.
So in total I spent 3000 and the TV was 2000.
How much was the computer the computer is the difference between the total and what I spent on the TV.
Right.
So put it here is an example.
So total was
3000.
The TV was 2000.
How much was the PC Well it's going to be the difference between these two.
Right.
Three thousand minus 2000 which is going to give me 1000.
There you go.
So you can actually just scratch that.
So you don't get confused.
I'll actually go ahead and take it out if you want to scratch it in your notepad but what I want you
to notice is again that the price of the PC is a difference between the total and the TV right.
So
isn't it true that if you want to find the revenue brought in by producing unit 101 isn't that the same
as saying revenue
of 101 units in total.
So altogether
mine is the revenue
of 100 units.
Isn't that true that this is going to give me the revenue of Unit 101.
Revenue of Unit 101.
So let me repeat this again.
The revenue of producing 121 units minus the revenue producing 100 units if you subtract one from the
other you're going to get what's left which is the revenue producing Unit 101.
So remember revenue of producing a 100 on 1 units includes the revenue producing 100 units.
So if you take that out you're going to be left with the revenue of Unit 101.
That is exactly what we're going to do here.
We're going to find the revenue producing a hundred and one units we're going to subtract the revenue
producing 100 units and that is going to be our answer.
Now notice in this case we're not going to use the derivative.
We're just going to use the real revenue function because we want the actual revenue.
Remember derivative is for estimating.
So derivative in marginal analysis is only for estimation
or approximation.
Whichever way you want to call it it's the same thing.
All right that's very important.
I don't want you to go ahead and plug these numbers into the derivative that's going to give you something
else again just use common sense actual revenue of producing Unit 101 revenue of producing a hundred
and one units minus revenue producing a hundred units.
All right.
So let's do it.
Let's go ahead and plug in these two numbers into this function and some tract one from the other.
So in essence what we're going to do is we're going to have our of 101
miners are of 100 that is going to be our answer.
So the revenue brought in by 100 and 1 units mine is the revenue brought in by 100 units.
Let's go ahead and plug that in.
So is plug into 101 into this function.
So we have zero points 0 3 times 1 0 1 squared plus 250 times 1 0 on that is our 101.
And then we're going to say mine is then we're going to plug in a hundred zero point zero three times
squared plus 250 times 100.
All right.
Let's find out what this is.
So 0.03 times 100 and one squared is actually and I'll bring it over here actually.
So let's do this.
So like we said 0.03 times 100 and one square is actually 3 0 6 3 0 6 point 0 3 plus.
And then we have to 50 times 101 is going to give us 25 thousand two hundred and fifty and then we have
minus.
And I remember Feel free to use a calculator here.
That's exactly what I'm doing.
I'm just editing the video.
So we have minus 0.3 times 100 squared that is 300
plus 250 times a hundred.
And here remember we have our 101.
Mine is our 100.
So this is our of 101 and we need to put this one in parentheses right.
300 plus and it's two 50 times 100 which is 25000.
So what is this.
So the first parentheses is equal to
25000 five hundred and fifty six and zero three zero three.
And then we have.
Mine is whatever is the sum of the second parentheses.
Three hundred plus twenty five thousand and six that is twenty five thousand three hundred and six.
And finally for the final answer let's subtract this one from this one.
And remember this is our 101 and this is our of 100.
So the revenue producing 101 units is this.
And the revenue producing 100 units this difference will tell us the revenue of the hundred and first
unit which is two hundred and fifty
point zero three.
Check it out.
This is the actual revenue producing unit 1 0 1.
I want you to do something.
Compare this answer to the answer that we got in the approximation for question 1.
Are they close together.
You let me know.
So I want you to pause the video right now and go look up the answer for problem 1.
Compare it to this to 50 and 3 cents.
All right so hopefully you went ahead and check that out.
And do you like the results.
One was an approximation.
One was the actual results.
All right.
So just to summarize what we did for this question we're looking for the actual revenue brought in by
producing unit 101.
So remember you can just go in and plug in 100 on one into here because that's going to give you the
revenue producing a batch of a hundred and one units in this case.
We want to know the revenue of just this single unit Unit 101.
So like we said well we can do is we can find the revenue producing 100 on one unit and subtract the
revenue producing 100 units.
What's left is going to be the revenue of Unit 101.
And remember we do this in the original revenue function not in the derivative.
The derivative is only used for estimation and approximation.
So our of 101 miners are of 100.
I'm not going to go through these calculations again but of course if you have a question please just
let me know.
And the final answer that we got is two hundred and fifty dollars and three cents.
Great.
So again you should know already how this compares to the answer and number 1 and that is it.
So in this example we use revenue but it could be profit.
It could be cost it could be any of those.
All right.
The process does not change the process is the same.
Awesome So let's go into our summary.